## OWASP Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP)

[OWASP Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP)](https://www.zaproxy.org/) is another common web proxy tool for web penetration testing. ZAP is a free and open-source project initiated by the [Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP)](https://owasp.org/) and maintained by the community, so it has no paid-only features as Burp does. It has grown significantly over the past few years and is quickly gaining market recognition as the leading open-source web proxy tool.

Just like Burp, ZAP provides various basic and advanced features that can be utilized for web pentesting. ZAP also has certain strengths over Burp, which we will cover throughout this module. The main advantage of ZAP over Burp is being a free, open-source project, which means that we will not face any throttling or limitations in our scans that are only lifted with a paid subscription. Furthermore, with a growing community of contributors, ZAP is gaining many of the paid-only Burp features for free.

In the end, learning both tools can be quite similar and will provide us with options for every situation through a web pentest, and we can choose to use whichever one we find more suitable for our needs. In some instances, we may not see enough value to justify a paid Burp subscription, and we may switch to ZAP to have a completely open and free experience. In other situations where we want a more mature solution for advanced pentests or corporate pentesting, we may find the value provided by Burp Pro to be justified and may switch to Burp for these features.